The MailMergePPTX application is a Python program designed to automate the generation of PowerPoint presentations by merging data from an Excel spreadsheet into a template PowerPoint file. It supports generating individual slides for each row in the Excel file, converting PowerPoint presentations to PDF, and merging multiple PDF files into a single PDF document.

Dependencies To use this program are mentioned in requirements.txt:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Ensure that Microsoft PowerPoint is installed on your machine, as it is required for comtypes package.
Following python libraries are needed for deploying the application python-pptx openpyxl comtypes six PyPDF2
Use pyinstaller to generate the exe.
pyinstaller --onefile --name=mailmergepptx mailmergepptx.py

Usage The program can be run in different modes based on the provided command-line arguments.

**General Usage**
```
python mailmergepptx.py <excel_filename> <ppt_filename>
```
excel_filename: Path to the Excel file containing data.
ppt_filename: Path to the PowerPoint template file.
This will generate individual PowerPoint files for each row in the Excel file, convert them to PDFs, and merge all PDFs into a single file named merged.pdf.

**Convert PPTX to PDF**
*python mailmergepptx.py /p <pptx_filename> <pptx_filename>*
Path to the PowerPoint file to be converted to PDF. This will convert all the listed PowerPoint file to a PDF with the same name.

**Convert All PPTX to PDF**
*python mailmergepptx.py /a*
Converts all PowerPoint files generated by the program, ending with _slide.pptx to PDFs.

**Merge PDFs**
*python mailmergepptx.py /m*
Merges all PDF files in the current folder into a single file named merged.pdf.

**Generate Individual PPTX files and PDFs**
*python mailmergepptx.py /s <excel_filename> <ppt_filename>*
Merges all PDF files in the current folder into a single file named merged.pdf.

**Display Help**
*python python mailmergepptx.py --help*
Displays detailed help instructions for using the program.

**Function Descriptions**

*replace_text_in_shape(shape, replacements)*
Replaces text in the provided shape based on the replacements dictionary.

*Parameters:* shape: The shape object in the PowerPoint slide. replacements: A dictionary containing the placeholders and their corresponding replacement values.

*generate_split_ppt(excel_filename, ppt_filename)* Generates individual PowerPoint files for each row in the Excel file and converts them to PDFs. Merges all PDFs into a single file named merged.pdf.

*Parameters:* excel_filename: Path to the Excel file containing data. ppt_filename: Path to the PowerPoint template file.

*convert_all_pptx_to_pdf()* Converts all PowerPoint files generated by the program (ending with _slide.pptx) to PDFs.

*merge_pdfs()* Merges all PDF files in the current folder into a single file named merged.pdf.

*convert_pptx_to_pdf(pptx_path, pdf_path, inLoop=False)* Converts a PowerPoint file to PDF. Used by convert_all_pptx_to_pdf() also in a loop.
Parameters:
      pptx_path: Path to the PowerPoint file.
      pdf_path: Path to the output PDF file.
      inLoop: Boolean flag to indicate if the function is called within a loop.


Examples:
```
mailmergepptx ..\namelist.xlsx ..\bulk_certs.pptx
mailmergepptx /s ..\namelist.xlsx ..\cert.pptx
mailmergepptx /p Row_004_slide.pptx Row_007_slide.pptx
mailmergepptx /a
mailmergepptx /m
```
Author: Bopaiah <bopaiah@hotmail.com>
